Building out documentation (#6)
alex-fusionauth/fusionauththemes: apps/main/content/docs/setup/index.mdx

---
title: Demo Installation and Setup
description: Set up the FusionAuth Docker container and Next.js Demo sites
icon: Cog
---

<Callout>
  Prerequisites: 
  - Node 22.6.0 or higher to run scripts without compiling TypeScript.
  - Docker to run FusionAuth locally (you can skip this if you already have a FusionAuth instance up and running)
  - [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation#using-npm) to install and run scripts instead of NPM
</Callout>

## Install the demos

> Clone the repository and install its requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the repository and install its requirements:
```
Very minor, but it's best to introduce code snippets with a colon.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-themes

cd fusionauththemes

pnpm install

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Very minor, trim extra newline.

```

## Set up FusionAuth Docker container

The FusionAuth setup is created via a mix of Docker, FusionAuth Kickstart, and a setup script.

> The FusionAuth Docker files are located in the `fusionauth` directory. This directory contains the Docker compose file and the Kickstart information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project uses a mix of Docker, FusionAuth Kickstart, and a setup script.

The `fusionauth` directory contains the Docker compose file and Kickstart configuration.
```
Why use more word when few word do trick?

### Environment variables 

> The setup requires certain environment variables, those are contained in the `.env.example` file. Rename that file to `.env`.

Reviewer: Should we change the file name to `.env` if users are expected to rename it, but not change the contents? Seems like an unnecessary step.

Author: Because it's a bad practice to commit `.env` files, this tends to be a standard way of giving a set of options or placeholder variables that then keeps users from accidentally committing their live variables to their repository

Reviewer: I wondered if that might be the reason! Seems fair enough to me, especially since you've done the courtesy of gitignoring the env files already.

### Run Docker

Move into the `fusionauth` directory and run the Docker container.

```bash
cd fusionauth

docker compose up -d
```

> After running these commands, there should be a version of FusionAuth running in your Docker engine. It's now ready to be populated for your demo.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
From the `fusionauth` directory, run the Docker container:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

You now have an instance of FusionAuth, ready to be populated for your demo.
````
Depending on the technicality of our audience, I think we can omit the `cd` command here. Keeps the narrative tighter, too. Additionally, trim some extra verbiage from the second paragraph.

### Run the setup script

> Once the Docker container is running, you can run the setup script from the root directory of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a FusionAuth instance running in Docker, run the setup script **from the root directory of the project**:
```
Make wording consistent with suggestion for last section.

```bash
cd ..

> pnpm fa:setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pnpm fa:setup
```

Same reasoning as above.

```

> The setup script will ask you questions. The default values will be what you want, but **_must be copied and pasted from the terminal inputs_**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup script asks a series of questions. To use the default values, **_copy and paste them from the terminal inputs_**.
```
Rephrased in active voice.

* **App Name**: The directory name of the demo app in the `/apps/` directory.
* **API Key**: Any key you want, but to follow other tutorials, use `this_really_should_be_a_long_random_alphanumeric_value_but_this_still_works`
* **API Endpoint**: Where your FusionAuth URL is `http://localhost:9011`
* **Admin Email**: Your FusionAuth admin email: `admin@example.com`
* **Admin Password**: Your FusionAuth admin password: `password`
* **Redirect URI**: Proper redirect URL for your app. Each app runs on a different port, so make sure to change it to the correct port `http://localhost:3001/api/auth/callback/fusionauth`
  * `main`: 3000
  * `iron-pixel`: 3001
  * `changebank`: 3002
  * `finexa`: 3003
  * `tacostruck`: 3004

Once the setup script finishes, it will give you a list of environment variables for your project. Copy those variables from your terminal into the appropriate app's `.env` file.

> If the script asks you if you want to delete data, answer "No"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the script asks you if you want to delete data, answer "No".
```

> In your FusionAuth instance, log in with the admin credentials, navigate to your Tenants -> Default Tenant, and edit that tenant. In the Issuer field, add `http://localhost:9011`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your FusionAuth instance, log in with the admin credentials, navigate to **Tenants -> Default Tenant**, and edit that tenant. In the Issuer field, add `http://localhost:9011`.
```
